# wet
Raspberry pi water logger: Time stamp events from a physical water meter installed in my main house supply line. Display the
resulting timestamp data in fun ways.
## Requires
 * raspberry pi single board computer (any model)
 * in-line water meter with a reed switch output such as SPWM-075 from EKM Metering
 * a plumber to install the water meter (or DYI)
 * misc wires to connect the water meter to the pi
 
## pi software
 * wet : a shell script to install wet.py as a daemon so that it automatically runs at power-up.
 * wet.py : appends a timestamp to waterlog.txt on each event (open-close or close-open)
 * waterlog.txt : file generated by wet.py and read by wetbin.py
 
## Client software (any machine with a CLI: OSX, Win, ssh client, etc.)
 * wetbin.py : basic routines to retrieve waterlog.txt and collate the timestamps into a python list 
 * wetui.py : display a table of gallons used over a set of time intervals
 * wetgraph.py : plot the water rates over time (requires graphics on the client)

## Q and A
### Why do this?
 * With the permanent drought in California, I wanted to see exactly how much water my house uses and on what. 
 * It seemed like an easy project for a raspberry pi.

### Why go to the trouble of installing your own water meter?
The San Jose Water Company meter is out at the street. I could have tried opening it up, gluing a magnet on the fastest 
dial, and gluing a reed switch on the outside, but I'm guessing SJWC would not like that. So it seemed less
trouble and more reliable to install my own meter in the main supply line. 

